About chessd
------------
Chessd is a server for multiplayer online chess play.  It communicates
in a protocol similar to the common Internet Chess Server (ICS) de facto
standard and can be used with popular client interfaces such as
Xboard on UNIX/Linux and Winboard on Windows.

Chessd is an adaptation of old projects for a modern environment, and
features RDBMS storage and a web interface.

Project page: http://sourceforge.net/projects/chessd
Bug tracker:  http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=86389&atid=579210
Mailing list: http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?forum_id=35241

Installation
------------
See file INSTALL for installation instructions.
See QUICKSTART once you have the server built and running.

Using chessd with non-Linux systems
-----------------------------------
Chessd is tested only for a i386 Linux/glibc environment.  We're
interested in porting it to other platforms and other UNIX-like
systems such as Mac OS X and the BSDs (see HACKING).

If you run into problems while compiling chessd on a non-Linux
or non-x86 system, please report the errors on the mailing list or 
bug tracker and we'll try to help.

A short history of chessd
-------------------------
The original Internet Chess Server (ICS) was launched in 1992.  When
it was turned into a commercial project, some of the original
programmers lanched a free version, the Free Internet Chess Server
(FICS).  Through the years many different groups worked on this code,
creating numerous forks and variations.  As the ICS protocol is not
formally specified, this fragmentation was harmful to the community
and the projects were ultimately abandoned.

As a part of the Chess in Schools project of the Brazilian government,
the Federal University of Paraná needed a working Internet chess
server.  Since there was no Free Software alternative, a university
group took over one of the abandoned projects (the "lasker" lineage
as modified by Andrew Tridgell) and improved upon it.  After fixing
memory problems, modernizing the build system and internationalizing
the user interface, the "João VI" chessd released was launched on
sourceforge.  It was still not usable for the project, however, as the
esoteric storage backend was bug-prone and the interface was too
antiquated for use in modern schools.  Thus another group of students
migrated the storage to a PostgreSQL backend and added a web
interface, launching the result as "Chrysalis".

João VI and later Chrysalis have been in use by governmental chess
groups for years, but unfortunately the teams were dismissed and the
project endured a period of stagnation.  The servers are still active,
however, and now work in the code was reinitiated.

The future of Chrysalis
-----------------------
As its name implies, Chrysalis is still an unfinished chessd flavour.
The first attempt on a web inteface resulted in hard to maintain
Portuguese-only PHP code, and it was concluded that most of the web
interface's shortcomings came from lack of good design in the SQL
layer.  The DB is currently being restructured, and over the new DB a
better, international web interface will be designed in Python.

The future of chessd
--------------------
The ICS-based chess servers have some design limitations.  The game
protocol is not formally specified, does not adhere to a standard
format such as XML, and mixes presentation with mechanism (making it
impossible to fully internationalize, for example).  The server code
reinvents the wheel for much of communication work, causing it to be
more complicated than it should be.

Discussions have begin on designing a new server from scratch, using a
standard communication protocol such as XMPP/Jabber and modern Web
applications.  As this is a longterm goal, the ICS-based server will
not be abandoned, but it is now considered to be a stopgap for a
better system.  Some of these ideas can be found on the mailing list,
starting 22 November, 2005:
http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/message.php?msg_id=13941472

It is hoped to have funding for more chessd work in 2007.

--
The chessd team
Federal University of Paraná, Brazil
